Hello friends, welcome to Legal
Literacy Channel. Welcome to Legal Literacy Channel.
Friends, today's topic is going to be very interesting
and along with being interesting, it is
also going to be beneficial for you, whether
you are a law student, a lawyer, a
law researcher, a judicial parent, and even if you are
not from a law background, today's video is going to be
very important for you because the
topic is always about insurance. You must have heard
about insurance, right? Agents must be
coming, companies must be coming and telling you
that this is the benefit of insurance, you should take
insurance, but has the
opportunity of claiming insurance ever come in front of you, if it has come in
front of you or any of your
relatives, then you must be
knowing that getting an insurance claim is
as easy as getting insurance, it is equally
difficult to claim it.
If you have to claim insurance, then
companies make all kinds of excuses
so that they do not have to pay the insurance claim.
Many times, cases go to courts. When they go to courts, then there is a court decision.  When a
decision is made, friends,
you must have come to know from the thumbnail itself that the Supreme Court has given such a
strong decision, a strong judgment has been given in
which the insurance company
cannot refuse to pay the policy claim. So,
friends, we will discuss it in this video. It is
very beneficial for you because
if such a need arises in your life to
claim insurance or if
such a need arises in anyone's life, then you
can help them.
Well, if you are a lawyer, then it is important for you
because such
cases keep coming to you. If you are a law researcher, then
this judgment is very important for you in the insurance law. If you are a
judicial aspirant,
then it is important for you. If you are a law student,
then
what will we discuss in this video?
You should watch this video completely. It is a very amazing
video. If you watch it till the end,
you will feel that some value
addition has happened in your life. You will get some
good information. So, friends,
in this we will discuss the name of the case and
then in which bench the case was heard.  This place was taken,
which judges were there, then we will talk about the facts of the
case and the arguments,
what were the arguments from both sides, the
insurance companies and what was the argument of the appellant, who is the
insurance insured person, we will
talk about some cases
which were relied upon, after that
when the case goes to the Supreme Court, we will
talk about what is the observation of the Supreme Court, so let's move ahead
friends, first of all we will talk about the name
of the case, you have to remember the name of the case because
if you are a law student
or a judiciary aspirant or a
lawyer, then you should also remember the name of the case
so that you can use it at various places, so
friends the name of the case is Ashok
Kumar vs New India Insurance
Company Limited, okay Ashok Kumar vs New
India Assurance Company Limited and the judges were the
bench of judges, Mr. Justice J.K.
Maheshwari and Mr. Justice K.
Vishwanathan, okay now after this we will come to the fact
of the case, friends
Friends, what is the case
of this case, the appellant who has appealed in the Supreme Court is the
owner of a truck, he had a
valid insurance policy, okay, the
truck had an insurance policy and on the
date of rescission, its driver had to
unload stone dust somewhere, that is, he had to make a
delivery, what does the driver do, he
parks the vehicle and
parks it in working condition, he
leaves the keys in the key hole and gets down to ask for the address,
okay, he gets down from the truck and
asks someone for the address where we have to deliver,
and while he is inquiring about the address, the
truck gets stolen, an FIR is lodged
and after that, after six days of filing the FIR, the
insurance company is informed about this incident so that the
insurance
claim can be taken, okay,
now what happens here, the
insurance company refuses to pay the claim, if it
refuses to pay the claim, then the
insurance company has two
reasons to refuse the claim,
friends, keep watching this video completely,
what is happening, how
What is the company doing with this? Then after the company, when the
case goes to the District Consumer Forum,
what happens there, what happens in the State Consumer Forum,
what happens in the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission
and then what happens in the Supreme Court, so there are
two reasons, the
first reason of which is the delayed information to the
insurance company, okay, they say that on the
day this incident happened, the day the theft took place,
we were not given the information, the
information is being given after six days, the first
is their ground for rejecting the insurance claim,
you keep watching how the company makes excuses
that how we do
not have to give the claim, we have to reject this claim, the
second is that Keralasusvideo
[music]
this is the reason
behind rejection, okay,
after this, when this happens, the ground of the company is that the
company has rejected,
after that the appellate goes to the District
Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission,
okay, which can be called the District Consumer Forum, the
District Consumer
Forum has this appellant person
Gave order in favor and said that
release the claim money of Rs. 75 to the company immediately,
okay now who has agreed here, the
company has agreed, the company goes away,
where in the
State Consumer Disputes Redressal
Commission, now in the State Disputes
Redressal Commission also there is discussion on two issues,
discussion takes place on two issues,
which is first the
company's own claim, okay, its own ground, discussion takes place on those two issues, okay, in the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission also, what happens there in the Appellant Redressal Commission is that after doing everything there, an order comes in favor of the company,
seeing that a fact comes later in this that the
lawyer of the appellant person had
withdrawn one of his complaints earlier, a
complaint was filed earlier
in the consumer form, it was withdrawn, it was
withdrawn, it comes on this ground, so on
this ground this
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission  The Redressal Commission, instead of
giving its decision in favor of the insured person,
gives its decision in favor of the insurance company.
Finally, after agreeing, the present appellate
goes to the Supreme Court. Okay,
from here our real case starts as to
what decision the Supreme Court has given in our case.
Okay, we were
talking about the decision of the Supreme Court, till now the
facts were going on. Okay, now let us
see what all is argued in the Supreme Court and how it happens.
Now the argument that is made in the Supreme Court by the
insurance company has
only two points here also. The point is
that the condition number
one of the insurance has been violated. Now condition
number one which has been violated means
that there is delay in intimation of theft
of the insurance company. Now condition number one
says that as soon as any incident happens, any
accident, its intimation should be given to the company.
What is happening here? There is
theft of trucks and thefts.
After six days of this, the company is being informed
that its
condition number one has become violent, then the company
says that its condition number five has also become
violent. What does condition number five
say here, that the driver of the vehicle did not take
proper and reasonable care to safeguard
the vehicle insured from loss
and damage. They said that condition number
five has become violent because the driver
of the vehicle did not take proper and
reasonable care to save his truck.
This was the company's argument. When the company's argument was made,
now
two questions came before the Supreme Court. The
two points of the company, which were the grounds,
which were the arguments, came before the Supreme Court in the form of
points that came
before the Supreme Court in the form of questions that the Supreme Court has to answer these
questions.
If the answer to these questions was
given in the company's favor, then the appellate case would have been lost. The
company would have won the case if the appellate had not taken the decision.  If it is
given in favor then the company
loses the case. Okay, what was the question? The
first question is whether the delay of
six days in intimating the insurance company
regarding the theft case comes with the purview
of breach of condition number one. Is the six-day
delay
in giving intimation to the insurance company in the theft
case really a breach of condition number one?
Okay, the first question is
before the Supreme Court whether on
facts there was a breach of condition number
five of the insurance policy to justify
the rejection of the claim in this? Is the
breach of condition number five a
justification
for the rejection of the claim by the insurance company? Can the
insurance company reject the claim on this basis?
We will show you the answers given by the Supreme Court to both these two questions.
What is the observation of the Supreme Court in this that condition number
one applies to  Accident cases are fine, not
on theft cases. The first answer is that condition number
one which is that the company should be intimated immediately,
it applies in accidental cases,
not on theft cases,
it does not apply in theft cases. What happens in theft cases is
that intimation of theft was
given to the police first and after that given
to the insurance company. Whatever the
appellant did was right because
in theft cases, where do we go first? We
go to the police station, file an FIR,
after that the police searches the vehicle and
tries to find it and finds it, then
we will not go to get
insurance, we will go to
claim insurance only when our truck
cannot be found. The police spent six days and could
not find it in six days, so the insurance
company was intimated that brother, please pay our
claim. So the first condition, the Supreme
Court said that condition number one has not been violated. First of all, the
first question of the Supreme Court has been answered.
In this case, the Supreme Court gave two
Cases were mentioned, two cases were relied upon,
one case is National Insurance Company
Limited vs Nitin Khandelwal, this
is a case of 2008 and Amalendu Sahu vs Oriental
Insurance Company Limited is a case of 2010,
okay and in this it has been said that this
is the answer of the second case, even if there was a breach of that
clause, the claim could not have been repudiated into two, the
Supreme Court says that if in the
second question which is our answer, even if there has been a
violation of that clause, even if there has been a
breach, then it does not
become a ground to reject the claim, okay,
Keralasusvideo,
now it is being said here by the Supreme Court
that Keralasusvideo does
not mean that he invited someone to
come and steal his car, this is
not a breach of condition, it is
not a fundamental breach of condition, this is a normal thing,
okay, so in both these questions, the
Supreme Court has given orders in favor of the appellant.  What
this means is that the
insurance companies will have to pay the insurance
claim, so this order
of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has been
set aside by the
Supreme Court, which means that the order of the State
Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and the
District Consumer Disputes
Redressal Commission will be enforced, which
means that the insurance company will have to pay the claim, the
insurance that is made for it will have to be
paid in the appeal, so friends, this
judgment is completely complete and the biggest benefit of this judgment will be to
those who get
insurance, so it means that the
entire common man will benefit from it, okay
friends, if you liked the video, then
like it and subscribe to the channel
so that you always get such videos
and whoever needs it, if you
feel that someone needs it, you
can also share this video with him and
friends, you can also tell us